---
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
title: Internet (presentation 1 homework)
description: Homework answers for wk 1
type: hacks
courses: { compsci: {week: 14} }
---
Bandwidth:
1. In the context of computer networks, elaborate on the concept of bandwidth. Discuss how bandwidth influences the speed and efficiency of data transfer. Provide examples of scenarios where both high and low bandwidth can impact the performance of internet connected devices.
- Bandwidth refers to the maximum rate of data transfer in a network, measured in bits per second. Higher bandwidth allows for faster data transfer, impacting activities like streaming and gaming positively. Conversely, low bandwidth results in buffering during streaming and slow webpage loading.


Computer Network:
2. Explore computer networks by detailing the key components and their interplay. Discuss the significance of scalability, security, and reliability in designing computer networks. Provide real-world examples of how different types of computer networks, such as local area networks (LANs) and wide area networks (WANs), serve distinct purposes in various settings.
- Computer networks consist of nodes, links, switches/routers, and protocols. Scalability ensures seamless growth, security guards against unauthorized access, and reliability ensures consistent performance. Local Area Networks (LANs) serve localized connectivity, while Wide Area Networks (WANs) connect geographically dispersed areas.


Packet Switching:
3. Investigate packet switching and its role in modern communication systems. Compare and contrast packet switching with alternative methods, such as circuit switching, highlighting the advantages that packet switching brings to data transmission. Describe the journey of a data packet through a network.
- Packet switching divides data into packets, enhancing network efficiency. Compared to circuit switching, it offers better resource utilization, flexibility, and simultaneous handling of different data types. The journey of a data packet involves encapsulation, independent routing through the network, and reassembly at the destination.

https://github.com/tanvim-18/student/blob/main/_posts/2023-11-28-internet.md



